tiproxy: update traffic replay docs (#20323)
pingcap/docs: sql-statements/sql-statement-traffic-capture.md

---
title: TRAFFIC CAPTURE
summary: An overview of the usage of TRAFFIC CAPTURE for the TiDB database.
---

# TRAFFIC CAPTURE

> TiDB v9.0.0 introduces the `TRAFFIC CAPTURE` syntax, which is used to send requests to all TiProxy instances in the cluster, allowing TiProxy to capture client traffic to traffic files.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
TiDB v9.0.0 introduces the `TRAFFIC CAPTURE` syntax, which is used to send requests to all [TiProxy](/tiproxy/tiproxy-overview.md) instances in the cluster, allowing TiProxy to capture client traffic to traffic files.
```

> TiProxy supports capturing traffic to local and external storage. When capturing traffic to local, you need to manually copy the traffic file to the TiProxy cluster for replay after capturing the traffic, but when using external storage, there is no need to manually copy.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
TiProxy supports capturing traffic to local and external storage. When using local storage, you need to manually copy the traffic files to the TiProxy cluster for replay. When using external storage, no manual copying is needed.
```

> TiProxy supports external storage including Amazon S3, Google Cloud Storage (GCS), Azure Blob Storage, or other file storage services that implement the S3 protocol. For more information about external storage, see [URI formats of external storage services](/external-storage-uri.md).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
TiProxy supports external storage including Amazon S3, Google Cloud Storage (GCS), Azure Blob Storage, and other file storage services that implement the S3 protocol. For more information about external storage, see [URI formats of external storage services](/external-storage-uri.md).
```

`TRAFFIC CAPTURE` has the following options:

- `DURATION`: (required) specifies the duration of capture. The unit is one of `m` (minutes), `h` (hours), or `d` (days). For example, `DURATION="1h"` captures traffic for one hour.
- `COMPRESS`: (optional) specifies whether to compress traffic files. `true` means compression, and the compression format is gzip. `false` means no compression. The default value is `true`.

> - `ENCRYPTION_METHOD`: (optional) specifies the algorithm for encrypting traffic files. Only `""`, `plaintext`, and `aes256-ctr` are supported. `""` and `plaintext` indicate no encryption, and `aes256-ctr` indicates encryption using the `AES256-CTR` algorithm. When specifying encryption, you also need to configure [`encrytion-key-path`](/tiproxy/tiproxy-configuration.md#encryption-key-path). The default value is """.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `ENCRYPTION_METHOD`: (optional) specifies the algorithm for encrypting traffic files. Only `""`, `plaintext`, and `aes256-ctr` are supported. `""` and `plaintext` indicate no encryption, and `aes256-ctr` indicates encryption using the `AES256-CTR` algorithm. When specifying encryption, you also need to configure [`encrytion-key-path`](/tiproxy/tiproxy-configuration.md#encryption-key-path). The default value is `""`.
```

Capturing traffic requires the current user to have the `SUPER` or [`TRAFFIC_CAPTURE_ADMIN`](/privilege-management.md#dynamic-privileges) privilege.

## Synopsis

```ebnf+diagram
TrafficStmt ::=
    "TRAFFIC" "CAPTURE" "TO" stringLit TrafficCaptureOptList

TrafficCaptureOptList ::=
    TrafficCaptureOpt
|   TrafficCaptureOptList TrafficCaptureOpt

TrafficCaptureOpt ::=
    "DURATION" EqOpt stringLit
|   "ENCRYPTION_METHOD" EqOpt stringLit
|   "COMPRESS" EqOpt Boolean
```

## Examples

> Capture 1 day of traffic to the local `/tmp/traffic` directory of the TiProxy instance:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Capture one day of traffic to the local `/tmp/traffic` directory of the TiProxy instance:
```

```sql

> TRAFFIC CAPTURE TO "/tmp/traffic" DURATION="1d"

Reviewer: ```suggestion
TRAFFIC CAPTURE TO "/tmp/traffic" DURATION="1d";
```

```

Capture 10 minutes of traffic to the S3 storage:

```sql

> TRAFFIC CAPTURE TO "s3://external/traffic?access-key=${access-key}&secret-access-key=${secret-access-key}" DURATION="10m"

Reviewer: ```suggestion
TRAFFIC CAPTURE TO "s3://external/traffic?access-key=${access-key}&secret-access-key=${secret-access-key}" DURATION="10m";
```

```

When capturing, traffic files are automatically encrypted but not automatically compressed:

```sql

> TRAFFIC CAPTURE TO "/tmp/traffic" DURATION="1h" COMPRESS=false ENCRYPTION_METHOD="aes256-ctr"

Reviewer: ```suggestion
TRAFFIC CAPTURE TO "/tmp/traffic" DURATION="1h" COMPRESS=false ENCRYPTION_METHOD="aes256-ctr";
```

```

## MySQL compatibility

> The `TRAFFIC CAPTURE` syntax is TiDB-specific and not compatible with MySQL.

Reviewer: 描述与中文不同 https://github.com/pingcap/docs-cn/pull/19548/files#diff-f231f94f82632fdf1a1b36a4541bd98725d445488b228149e490bf1c0d42d1aaR60
